during highly euphoric markets we must
be
extra diligent about where our money is
being kept where it's being invested and
where it can be dispersed
interestingly with this being called the
everything bubble it becomes a very
difficult task
there are certainly some assets that
were undervalued for a long period of
time
and now they're charging up higher and
higher but will it ever stop
you came here for the truth so let me
unveil that for you
today we're gonna do something a little
bit different
and uh quite frankly you know we're
looking
here directly at the money gps this is
just something i'm playing around with
right now
got the green screen we're gonna talk
about a bubble and that is something of
course that i cover
very very regularly here on the channel
i want to look at some data today i want
to look at what bridgewater had to say
i think it's important to not follow
them just because it's bridgewater but
when i see some good information
i wanted to bring it to you as an
individual investor you need to be aware
of where your money is
and where maybe it should be kept
instead
so let's get into it bridgewater co-cio
sees fair amount of stock market in a
bubble
and that is quite different from what
we've seen with many of the others who
have said
no that's really not the case yes you do
see a few outliers
but that really isn't the case today so
he also said
greg jensen that is said that shorting
too early is the easiest place to die
and that's absolutely true so just
because it's a bubble
just because you see the excess doesn't
necessarily mean
that you should be putting everything
into this
particular you know cash money markets
and so on
you have to do this right and you can
see the excessive
ipo supply can serve as the pin
spax are going crazy you've seen it all
now he was interviewed here on bloomberg
and there's a lot
a lot of good information so i
definitely want to cover as much of it
as i can so
let's move through this really quickly
bubbles are very strange phenomenon
because
the risk-for-word relationship is so
interesting it almost
seems that as an investor you have to
participate in the bubble of course
you're seeing that all over the place
right
because if you think it's a bubble too
early you really
miss the best returns from them how do
you know when is the time to get
out of an overvalued market so he's
going to cover a few steps in here
and i wanted to make sure i mentioned
them all along through bridgewater's
history we have been systematic so we've
taken
the kind of discussion we're taking the
kind of discussion we're having now a
very qualitative view of the world but
translate it into ways that can measure
it so you take something like a bubble
right
a class of qualitative thing what do you
mean by a bubble
how do you measure that it's a bubble is
it enough to say
prices are high relative to history or
what's the actual measure
and how reliable is it these are all
things that we talk about here on the
channel
you have to do your own measurements you
can't necessarily
just say i'm gonna pick these stocks
because i believe in them
we should always be aware of what's
happening fundamentally okay
they have six gauges of a bubble
and they use that all over the world and
you can apply to kryptos
you can apply to anything that you
wanted to world stocks bonds anything
our basic scorecard is and he doesn't
cover all six it seems in here
but he does touch on a few that i wanted
to note are prices high relative to
traditional measures and we use that
through the warren buffett's
you know the global or the the total
market cap
to gdp for instance that's one example
of that
and by the way stay tuned for videos
related to specifically
on certain indicators and how you can
actually
look into this yourself i think it's
important to know those indicators
really key
and right here are prices discounting
unsustainable conditions
so as an example today there's something
like 10 of stocks that are pricing in
more than
20 percent revenue growth and margin
expansion if you look at history
2 of stocks actually achieved that
that's an extremely hard thing to do
that's not counting the base effects
from last year right no i'm talking
about ongoing growth
rates without the base effect it doesn't
happen it's very
very unlikely to happen and he goes
on okay the third thing is new buyers
entering the market how many new buyers
are there
how big of a part of the market are they
that's the broad sentiment measures
so you see the these are things that
people should always be aware of and i
think it is
really key really intelligent to always
be uh you know when you're looking at
particular stocks when you're looking at
your portfolio as a whole
you want to be aware of all of these
things every single thing
may have an input because maybe you're
going to change that allocation that you
currently have to equities
and you want to put it somewhere else
maybe you're over a leverage maybe you
want to pull back on that
these are things that i think are so key
he does some relation here between what
we saw in 2000
and that was one quite excessive period
of time
there is no doubt if you have the time
definitely check out
the you know if you if you want to see
the actual video or the
interview itself you can do that i will
have a link in the description
as always
your friend and mine jerome powell had a
few things to say and
to be honest with you it's just more of
the same the u.s economy is doing better
but it's not
out of the woods yet the economy is
reopening is bringing stronger economic
activity and job
creation wow it's fantastic
everything is great but we still have to
print money
we still have to keep interest rates low
this is a lot of reuters that they had
brought this up and i just think it's
funny that they're still reusing and
recycling
essentially the exact same narrative
over and over again
gas prices my friends this right here
happens to be for california
southern california five dollars a
gallon and if you drive that bmw
mercedes you're spending
six dollars a gallon now the prices
are so excessive so excessive today and
it's not if you're driving a hummer
we're talking about everybody even
smaller sedans
and more affordable vehicles the gas
prices are accelerating dramatically
and you know depends on the area that
you're looking at but this happens to be
southern california
i've heard from my friends in europe oh
my goodness the prices are high
prices are high basically everywhere but
if you look at certain areas
you will see a disparity the point is
more money coming out of your pocket
lumber prices break new records adding
heat to home prices sawmill owners
poised to
reap big profits while home buyers
renters bear the brunt of rising wood
costs
i did a video about this recently
talking about how
maybe it's not necessarily in short
supply maybe there's something else
going on but regardless the
end result is people have to pay more i
believe i covered the data and it said
something like
36 000 added to the cost
of a new home and that's probably using
the previous month's
prices so you know who knows where we
are at right now i mean it's crazy
this is the chart you can see on the
left hand side lumber
futures price by year and the
orange area that's 2015 to 2019 average
and then we can compare that of course
to 2020 2021.
take a guess which one is 2021. it is
completely
straight up high you're talking about
as this shows here 1600
dollars per thousand board feet i mean
the prices are accelerating to a point
where you've got
you know it's making it extremely
difficult to do something that you would
have been able to do before you know you
wanted to build something for your
backyard you want to build a deck
you wanted to build a little thing you
you know you may decide you know what
forget it i'm not going to do that
because the prices have gone so sky
high okay they get into more of the
details of course
in here but i've covered it more
recently so let's move on
this article here out of bloomberg is
talking about the reasons why this is
happening of course
talking about the supply chain problems
for lumber they also mentioned other
commodities have similar rules about
exchange limits coming
off it's common occurring whenever a
futures contract is
expiring but lumber is seeing extreme
bump in prices
while others are not because of the
tightness in the market so
they you know they give you some
examples here i think it's just
important to see
how this is really being driven up
in a short period of time unlike
something we've ever seen before this is
very
unusual historically not that you know
prices don't rise
but to see it happen in this short
period of time
it is something that we'll be looking
back on there's no doubt about it
because
the prices have only just begun
and that brings me to the money gps
insights
i put myself bigger over here having a
little fun today but what you can see
from all the information i was talking
about right now
i think it's important to actually look
at this and think
for yourself what does this all mean i
gotta pay more for gas i gotta pay more
for lumber i gotta pay more for just
about
everything but there are available
investments today
if you wanted to you could take
advantage of that means you could look
at etfs
that means you could be looking at
futures contracts you could be
understanding which companies are there
to benefit from all the inflation
and you could put your money in it so
the reason you do this
is simply because as the prices are
rising as is becoming more
unaffordable for everything you are
keeping
up with that by investing in it it's
just like
you know generally trying to keep up
with inflation this is something else
all together of course
but if you want to keep up with
inflation you hold on to assets because
those assets appreciate and so on
so we're playing the same game we're not
necessarily trying to make a million
dollars make a billion dollars but
you're simply trying to
keep up with this game as it rolls on
really quickly wanted to go through
these right here the total return
performance of major
global financial assets in april and you
can go through
take a guess what's number one copper
this is so important to
watch what happens with copper an
industrial metal
extremely important metal as it relates
to industry and development and you
could see
you know that really tells you something
about what's happening in the economy
you can go down the list and you will
see others
oil is in there silver is in there
and you look down brent is in there you
come
down to the smp 500 s p 500 has
performed extremely well
but in comparison you look at something
like copper and so on
and it's a different story you move on
here
you're seeing total return performance
of major global financial assets here
today in
local currency and it's somewhat
different
all depends on which asset you're
happening to look at which index you're
looking at
i just want to show you that as well and
then we have this total return
performance of major global financial
assets year to date in u.s
dollar and it just breaks that down here
as well
i always want to give you as much of the
details as i possibly can
just giving you a broad perspective on
what's
happening really quickly also wanted to
show you this
with all of that which has been
happening with cryptocurrencies with the
rise in
all of these right now i'll show you
this first
this happens to be ethereum it
accelerated dramatically
in its relation to even the us dollar
but also
with bitcoin and it shot over 3200
dollars this is quite excessive
considering where it was
just a year ago now we go back the
creator of this
and you know i would definitely uh
try to figure out the mind behind this
this guy right here because it is just
something else altogether but he's 27
years old
started working on this at the age of 19
and now the world's youngest crypto
billionaire it's amazing to see all the
attention
that is put onto these different
projects and
you know say what you want about them
but ultimately
we're seeing a lot of things that are
changing i think a lot of the stuff
that's around today
probably won't be there at some point
but certainly
we need to be making progress with the
current financial system and i'm
i'm hopeful that there will be new
things that come up
that are created that displace the old
way of doing things this right here last
thing just to show you the
affordability or more likely the
unaffordability
of certain areas when you look at
housing prices housing prices around the
world
have become so excessive so extreme
and you can see at the bottom there
showing you the most extreme scenario
hong kong vancouver sydney auckland and
then
our favorite here number five
toronto these places are truly excessive
in relation to the uh you know
anything essentially but but according
to incomes that's the big deal
because if your income was keeping up
you know you can make an excuse well
my income has gone up this much and so
on but that's not happening today
and all of that which people have
invested is right in their home and
they're
sinking more into that right now which
uh
you know hopefully the market continues
to climb but
you're just seeing this excessive
excessive
um everything today the the everything
bubble
and it's just non-stop so i really am
concerned
about what we're seeing the excesses
taken with basically
with no breather along the way so watch
out where your money is invested
keep a close eye on it really it is
something that people are just taking
for granted
and i think that if you're diversified
hopefully you'll do better
than the majority hit the like button if
you want to support this channel got to
give that thumbs up
you have to be getting on the insiders
list
there there will be a link in the
description uh
at the website themoneygps.com and
you've got to also check out the free
absolutely free e-course to learn about
e-commerce the amazon gps.com
if you want to learn about the financial
system everything you need to know right
here
in these two books and if you haven't
yet you
absolutely want to check it out click
click this video right here
click it and you're gonna see some good
info take care